Title: Day 14 - Samarkand, Uzbekistan

----

Coverimage: new-emblem-samarkand.jpg

----

Date: 2019-01-24

----

Text: 

We called it the Stans trip. It included more than just the Stans but because of some unexpected issues we had to cancel, settling instead for a restaurant in Queens called Taste of Samarkand. 

Today I am in Registan Square, at the heart of the ancient city of Samarkand, Uzbekistan. As a suffix, -stan translates to “place” in Persian. And Uzbekistan is a place indeed. Prosperous because of its location along the silk road, Samarkand shows influences from every major empire in this hemisphere as far back as the 12th century B.C. 

Lions guard the buildings here. Sher-dor Madrassah, “sher” (lion) “madrassah” (school), in the center of town is marked with two leering lions, sun on their backs, mouths agape behind small prancing goats. Two massive golden lions protect the entrance to the Registan where people would assemble to hear royal proclamations of ancient empires. They say the symbol of lions was brought by the Iranians during the Achaemenid Empire founded by Cyrus the Great, “King of Kings” as far back as 530 B.C., changing hands between more than a dozen successive empires. 

In the psychology of projection, the figure of the lion seems formed to protect the deep insecurity and internal weakness of an infant empire. And that over centuries it’s story of strength formed the myths that it was all powerful and self sufficient. The empire told these stories to shield itself from its nascent beginnings as an unfinished self. Endless battles necessary for survival. Before it had proven its might. Before it could break away its hard outer shell to become aware of its soft inner workings and self destructive nature. 

The lion is my shield, hammered out with the latest and coolest, obsession with authenticity, accomplishment and narcissism; and I have worn it for decades. I have carried my shield of verbal violences, desperate for control, to dominate and expand my empire, but I will no longer for its weight has cast deep cuts in my skin. First hydrogen-peroxide, then washing, band aids. Gels and moisturizers, massage, avoid too much sun.

Attached is the emblem of my shield, adapted from the city emblem of Samarkand.

Research:
- (file: Emblem_of_Samarkand.png text: [IMAGE] Official emblem of Samarkand)